1. Introduction

1.1 Problem Statement
From the Data Science Professional Capstone Module on Coursera:
Now that you have been equipped with the skills and the tools to use location data to explore a geographical location, over the course of two weeks, you will have the opportunity to be as creative as you want and come up with an idea to leverage the Foursquare location data to explore or compare neighborhoods or cities of your choice or to come up with a problem that you can use the Foursquare location data to solve. If you cannot think of an idea or a problem, here are some ideas to get you started:
i. In Module 3, we explored New York City and the city of Toronto and segmented and clustered their neighborhoods. Both cities are very diverse and are the financial capitals of their respective countries. One interesting idea would be to compare the neighborhoods of the two cities and determine how similar or dissimilar they are. Is New York City more like Toronto or Paris or some other multicultural city? I will leave it to you to refine this idea.
ii. In a city of your choice, if someone is looking to open a restaurant, where would you recommend that they open it? Similarly, if a contractor is trying to start their own business, where would you recommend that they setup their office?

1.2 Business Problem
A restaurant chain franchise called ‘Hot Shops’ has indicated interest to set up several branches of their restaurant chain outlets in the city of Atlanta. We have been tasked to develop a data-driven business methodology to establish locations within the city of Atlanta which will guarantee the success of these outlets.
The City of Atlanta is host to a population of 506,811 people (U.S. Census Bureau) making it a prime destination for a business requiring high traffic flows for success. Current 2020 estimates place its population closer to 730,000 people, making it the 4th fastest growing metro area in the United States (Atlanta Business Chronicle).
Image for post
Figure 1: WordMap Showing Various Atlanta Neighborhoods (Source:Etsy.com)
Figure 1 above illustrates the various Neighborhoods located in the City of Atlanta. With over 200 Neighbourhoods, Atlanta hosts a diverse and rich population within its borders.



2. Data Sources

For this study, the latitude and longitude coordinate points of each neighborhood was required. Obtaining precise datum for the city of Atlanta proved challenging at first however a work around was established.
First, a GeoJson data partitioning the various Atlanta neighbourhoods was obtained from ARC’s Open Data and Mapping Hub’s Website (URL: City of Atlanta Statistical Areas). A sample of this dataset is described in Figure 2 while Figure 3 presents a mapping of the GeoJson dataset superimposed on a map using Python’s Folium module.
Image for post
Figure 2 : Sample Snapshot of Atlanta GeoJson Data
Image for post
Figure 3. A Full Mapping of the GeoJson Data using the Folium module.
The latitude and longitude coordinate points for each neighborhood was approximated using the first coordinate points listed for each city. A Dataframe was developed listing latitude and longitude coordinate points for each neighborhood. A snapshot of this Dataframe is presented in Figure 4.
Image for post
Figure 4: Coordinates for Atlanta Neighborhoods
In order to obtain venue data for each of the various neighborhoods, the Foursquare API was implemented in the course of the analysis. Detailed information on this API was obtained from their website (Foursquare.com)
The IBM Watson Notebook was used for the data analysis. Datasets as well as the corresponding Python modules were imported into the web notebook. A link to my full data analysis is described in the link below.
IBM Watson Notebook for Atlanta Restaurant Analysis
